So we're now creating this Json Web Token and we're sending it back to our client,
we can receive it in our Angular app
now in the auth service as shown in the last lecture, here.
Now of course we want to use that token to control access on the back-end and deny it for any requests
that don't have a valid token
and of course we then want to be able to still reach these requests by actually adding the token to
requests sent by Angular to such protected endpoints.
So that is what I want to start working on now
and for that, let's actually start verifying the token on the server.
So let's check whether a valid token is attached to an incoming request and let's do that for some of
our routes,
the question of course is which routes should be protected?
Now on the back-end, the user related routes for logging in and for signing up of course should not be
protected, any user of our web page should be able to reach these routes, any user should be able to send
requests to these routes because the users interested in signing up and logging in of course are not authenticated,
that's the idea behind these routes.
Now for posts, that actually changes. There we actually have some routes that should be protected, like
for example this post route for creating a new post or the put route for editing one. The get route,
that should definitely be available and we could argue that both the route for getting all posts as well
as a single post should be open to anyone because reading is something I want to allow to unauthenticated
users too, deleting on the other hand again should not be allowed,
this should again be disabled for users who are not authenticated.
So we have to add something to these routes to check whether an incoming request has a valid token or
not
and for that, we can actually use an approach we used for the image upload already. There
we added an extra middleware to our route setup.
Remember the route is constructed to first have a look at the path and then here, we use the multer
middleware to extract any files that are part of the incoming request before we then as a third argument
to our route set up execute our own function.
Now we can add as many middlewares as we want
and the idea is to add yet another extra middleware here which simply checks whether we are authenticated
or not
and this will be a middleware we create on our own.
So for that, let's create a new folder in the back-end folder and I'll name it middleware,
the name is totally up to you but I will create a so-called middleware here,
so a function which will essentially parse the request and then decide whether the request is allowed
to continue or if it should be rejected
if we want to send a response that you're not authorized in our case. So for that, I'll create a new
file in that middleware folder and I will name it check-auth.js,
the name is totally up to you but this describes what I plan on doing,
I want to check whether we are authenticated or not and I will check this with the help of that token
I was talking about, of that Json Web Token.
Now how do we do that?
Well we want to check if A, you do have a token attached to your request but that doesn't mean that the
token is valid,
so the second step is that we validate this token and since we use that Json Web Token package to
create the token here with the sign method in the user route,
we can also use it to verify an incoming token and we'll do this in check-auth.
So here, I will import JWT by storing it in a constant and then importing it with the required keyword,
Json Web Token is the package name and with it imported, I'll then export something in that file
because I want to use that middleware in other files, in my route files to be precise,
so I will use that NodeJS
export syntax with module exports and set this equal to a function because a middleware is just
a function which receives our three well-known arguments, the request, a response object which would allow
us to create a response and next which we could call if the request should be allowed to continue.
This is how that looks like, this is a typical middleware in Node/Express,
it's just a function which gets executed on the incoming requests.
That's also what multer is doing behind the scenes,
it's exposing such a function and that's actually the function we define here as the last middleware too.
That is just a middleware here,
we're just taking the request and doing something with it
and now we're creating an extra function which runs before our final function. Here
I will try to get the token from the incoming request and store it in this constant.
Now it's up to you where you want to get that token from,
you could request or parse it from the URL,
let's say as a query parameter,
so you could say my token is stored in my query parameters and there, I have let's say an auth field. But
I want to accept it as a header,
so I will look into the headers of my incoming request, Express gives us the headers object for that
and there I expect to have an authorization header.
Now you can theoretically expect any header you want but authorization is a typically chosen name
for attaching authorization information to a request.
Now there, I expect to get my token and actually, the pattern you typically use is that you assign
a value to that header which uses a word, bearer
and then the token and that simply is a convention to indicate, well that you basically added such a
token to your authorization because there are authentication alternatives where you don't use a token
like this and the bearer keyword is totally up to you,
it's optional but it's often chosen.
You see that on other APIs too
and therefore we will use it too. Since the token then is the second part of that string, I will split the
authorization header on the whitespace it contains,
so after this bearer word and I'm then interested in the second value we got out of there,
so since we started index zero, the second element has the index one because that will be the part after
the whitespace,
so our token.
Now that's just a convention which you can edit by the way.
You of course don't have to expect this bearer word which then would mean you couldn't omit that split
logic
or as I mentioned earlier, maybe you want to get that token as a query parameter.
That's totally up to you,
I will use this approach since this is an approach you see in many APIs.
Now this gives us the token, we could now check whether this is undefined or not
because it should not be undefined if we have a token.
Now in general this could also just fail, if we get no authorization header, calling split would simply
throw an error.
So I will actually wrap this into a try/catch block here,
this means I try to do that split but it can fail and I will catch the error if it fails.
Now if it fails, I of course also know that
we don't have a token
and that means we're not authenticated.
So in this case, I will simply set a response with a status of 401 for not authenticated
.
and then you can send back some Json data if you want,
for example a message of failed.
So this is one basic set up
but now we're just retrieving the token
and if we got a token, we right now wouldn't do anything.
So we have to write more code here
in the success case that we at least were able to extract a token because the next step then is to
verify that token and for that, we can use the JWT verify method and that verify method
by the way will also throw an error if it fails to verify,
so this should also go into the try/catch block.
There we pass an argument and that argument is the token we parsed from the incoming request. Now for verify
to work, we need to pass one other important piece of information, that secret string which we also used
for creating the token,
so this string we used for signing because this of course is taken into account by the signing algorithm
and therefore, the package also needs to know this secret to verify that token,
so to check whether it was created by this package on our server and if it is valid. And if this does
not throw an error, then we know that we have a valid token, if it does throw an error, we go into the catch
block and we send back an error response.
If it does not fail, then I want to call next and let the execution continue,
so now the request will be able to travel on.
Now to use that middleware, we have to import it into our routes file in the posts route file because
we don't plan on using that middleware in user.js file
and there, I simply add a new import, checkAuth,
you can name this constant whatever you want
and here, I will require and now point to that middleware folder and there, the check-auth file without
the file extension.
And now we add that middleware very easily by simply going to the routes we want to protect, like this
post route
and then by adding it as an extra argument after the path
but before all the other logic we want to execute.
So for creating the post for example, I don't even want to try to extract the uploaded image if we're
not authenticated,
so I will run this before we run the multer middleware. Now for putting, I have the same logic after
the path
before we try to get the image. By the way, please note, you don't execute this function, you just pass the
reference to that function you created, to that middleware function and Express will execute it for you
when a request reaches it.
So now we added it here.
Now I mentioned that I want to allow the fetching of all posts and of single posts, so we don't add the
middleware here but for deleting,
I will again add it and now all these routes should be protected and we can check this. If we save that
and our server therefore restarts,
if we now reload the Angular app, we should not be able to create a new post.
So if I enter something here, choose an image and enter something here too,
we get an error here on the right.
We're not handling it correctly on the front-end yet,
this is something we'll do soon but we're getting it here on the right,
we get that unauthorized error
and that of course is a great sign because that means our authentication check on the back-end is working.
Now of course, that breaks our app for now,
so in the next lecture, we will actually attach the token to requests sent from the front-end and see
that we make it work again
but then with authentication.